bpo-31861: Provide aiter and anext builtins (#23847)
python/cpython: Doc/library/functions.rst

   If the argument is a complex number, its magnitude is returned.

.. function:: aiter(async_iterable)

   Return an :term:`asynchronous iterator`. This is the async variant

>    of the :func:`iter` builtin, and behaves similarly.

Reviewer: Frankly, this doesn't tell me much. The description doesn't even state that `aiter(x)` is equivalent to `x.__aiter__()`, which to me is the key point. Certainly it shouldn't start by stating the type of what it returns; it should describe how the return value relates to the input. (Compare the entry for abs(x) above, "Return the absolute value of a number." This clearly references the input and what the function does to that value.)

Also, state explicitly that `aiter(aiter(x))` is the same as `aiter(x)` (IOW that `aiter(x)` itself has an `__aiter__()` method that returns `self`.)

Author: Incorporated in the latest revision, but please let me know if it needs further refinement. Thanks for the great feedback!

   *async_iterable* must be an :term:`asynchronous iterable`,
   and :func:`aiter` returns an asynchronous iterator for it.

   Unlike the :func:`iter` builtin, :func:`aiter` has no 2-argument variant.
   Often, this variant can be replaced with assignment expressions::

      while chunk := await sock.read(CHUNK_SIZE):

>          ...

Reviewer: I don't think we need to explain this.

Author: Removed.

Reviewer 2: One reason I quite like this snippet is that it helps to avoid surprise at why `aiter()` doesn't have a 2-argument form to match `iter()`. But it does feel out of place to talk about things this function _doesn't do_.

   If the argument is a complex number, its magnitude is returned.

.. function:: aiter(object, [sentinel])

   Return an :term:`asynchronous iterator` object. This is the async variant

>    of the :func:`iter()` builtin, and behaves similarly.

Author: Fix these Sphinx things

Reviewer 3: Are the links broken?

Author: With roles like `:func:` and `:meth:`, Sphinx adds the parens at the end for you when the docs are rendered. Fixed now.  Built the html docs locally with these changes and they look good to me.

Reviewer 2: I think you can still include parentheses in the role text, though, right? I'm pretty sure I do that all the time, because it makes the reST more readable.

Author: I'm not sure if you can optionally include them. All the other occurrences of `:func:` in the documentation source do not include parens. At the very least, excluding them seems the preferred style.

.. function:: aiter(async_iterable)

   Equivalent to calling ``x.__aiter__()``.

   ``aiter(aiter(x))`` is the same as ``aiter(x)``.
   (``aiter(x)`` itself has an ``__aiter__()`` method that returns ``self``.)

   Formally, given an :term:`asynchronous iterable`,

>    return an :term:`asynchronous iterator`.

Reviewer: Much better! Here is how I would rearrange this:
```
Return an :term:`asynchronous iterator`
for an :term:`asynchronous iterable`. 
Equivalent to calling ``x.__aiter__()``.

``aiter(x)`` itself has an ``__aiter__()`` method that returns ``x``,
so ``aiter(aiter(x))`` is the same as ``aiter(x)``.
```

Author: Incorporated in the latest revision, thanks!

(((
Come to think of it, `iter` also has the `iter(iter(x)) == iter(x)` property, which is not currently mentioned in [the `iter` docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#iter). The `iter` docs have a lot more work to do though, to cover the 1- and 2-arg variants (and they're already doing this very well).

And now that I'm looking at those again, I notice the only code example there is for the 2-arg variant:
```python
from functools import partial
with open('mydata.db', 'rb') as f:
    for block in iter(partial(f.read, 64), b''):
        process_block(block)
```
If this pattern is now obsoleted by assignment expressions[1], is it worth updating the `iter` docs to (1) mention the `iter(iter(x)) == iter(x)` property, and (2) remove the obsoleted example code? If so, happy to submit a separate PR for that.

[1] as in the following:

```python
with open('mydata.db', 'rb') as f:
    while block := f.read(64):
        process_block(block)
```
)))

Reviewer: I don't want to personally get into the weeds about the iter() docs, sorry. Something for the docs WG perhaps.

Reviewer 4: I don't think it's worth updating the docs to promise `iter(iter(x)) == iter(x)` as it isn't a specific benefit to the user beyond logically doing the right thing.

Author: I can see that.

@gvanrossum, do you think @brettcannon's rationale applies equally to the `aiter` docs too? I did add a `test_aiter_idempotent()` for this in 6ee8824 to go along with the promise that the `aiter` docs are now making, but can remove that test along with that part of the docs if that's better.

Reviewer: I think there's a different bar for updating the `iter()` docs than for the initial version of the `aiter()` docs. And they don't have to match precisely.

FWIW the main reason the idempotency property is important is because of the implicit `[a]iter()` call in a for-loop, since in
```
for i in x: ...
```
the for-loop calls `iter(x)`, so that in
```
for i in iter(x): ...
```
the for-loop ends up calling `iter(iter(x))`. It's the same for `async for` and `aiter()`.

          return True

.. awaitablefunction:: anext(async_iterator[, default])

   When awaited, return the next item from the given :term:`asynchronous
   iterator`, or *default* if given and the iterator is exhausted.

   This is the async variant of the :func:`next` builtin, and behaves
   similarly.

>    Immediately, call the :meth:`~object.__anext__` method of *async_iterator*,
>    then return an :term:`awaitable`. Awaiting this returns the next value of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This calls the :meth:`~object.__anext__` method of *async_iterator*,
   returning an :term:`awaitable`. Awaiting this returns the next value of the
```
